---
date: 2023-11-09
title: my memories are stored in melodies
---
The greatest distance between two places is through time. When I listen to music, occasionally a song will play that instantly transports me back to a specific moment in time, filling me with vivid memories of a moment I'll never forget. When I play through these songs, I relive moments like they just happened.

## Somewhere in the middle
One moment, it's a hot and humid day somewhere in the middle of a damp Missouri summer. I'm driving in my silver sports car, shifting gears, and blasting down a windy back road. Lush greenery towers overhead, filtering sunlight randomly down to my open windows. A modern day Jack Keruoac belts over the speakers in the small cockpit, drowning out wind noise with musings about wandering around, never really fitting in anywhere. I'm restless. As beautiful as this place is, I can't help but peer around the next corner, wondering what's waiting for me around the next bend. The call of the wild is too strong. I can't stay in this town forever. My heart always wins on these matters, and besides, reverse is the slowest gear on this car. New plans have been swirling around in my head, tempting me with visions of unexplored places, people, and oppportunities. For now, I'm here, but I can't help but feel like I'm already moving there. I've driven this car long enough to know that the best option is to hit the accelerator.

## **I can always sleep on the floor**
Now I'm hundreds of miles away from home, rocketing down a dusty deserted road in an old sedan with peeling gold paint and no air-conditioning. My buddy pushes the pedal past 80, onwards to 90, 95, and finally 100. The music is maxed out to drown out the rush of air through the four open windows, our only respite from the desert sun. Adventure awaits far ahead in the mystical land of wine and long trails. Hell, we don't even know where we're sleeping tonight, and we're in the middle of the biggest nowhere I've ever seen. The sun is setting, lighting the dirt in front of us on fire. We've been driving since dawn all day, same as yesterday. Electricity tingles through the dry air, lighting up our faces with wry smiles that say everything our voices can't in this chorus of wind, music, and raw four-cylinder power. I don't know it yet, but this adventure will forever change how I look at travel and the meaning of a vacation. Who knew you could grow so much from just walking and driving? Jack is asleep askew in the backseat. James dons a blanket to fight the sun. We live simply and discuss books and philosophy, high-minded ideals as we struggle to stay dry, unbitten, and fed. We eat slop, and joke about burgers. We say nothing for hours on end. We roll out our sleeping bags wherever we are when sleep hits us. My first night camping goes well, my second night is on a not-abandoned LA beach. We don't have much, but we have plenty of gas to get us to where we're going, and I realize what freedom means to me. There's no rush to get anywhere, since everywhere has become our home.

## **Heat waves keep faking me out**
The dog days at the end of summer find me retreating towards the mountains for long hikes and cold beers. I hear that song again, the one that played at the bar every humid night we wandered out after dusk. We're driving to a new campsite. I look over at my buddy, and realize that we will never get this summer back. How many more times will we have the chance to live so close to one another and surf the waves of summer together? Bandanas on, backpacks loaded down with 12oz cans, tank tops slung over shoulders. We drive out to the grassy forest and throw discs at metal poles, or each other. Sipping suds, smoking buds. We play one round, slow, then take off to find cold showers or colder beer. One beer turns into many as the air cools off. Go with the flow, and you friends float in on the breeze. We sweat more dancing inside the bar, but the music is louder. A new romance blossoms before my eyes. There's no replacement for youthful energy, the drive to drink too much and sing too loud. We stumble around town, exploring a part that I never did in all the years I've lived here, opening up a new world of possibilities. We end up back at our house, surrounded by people who I know I like, but don't fully know. This house tormented me for a while, but now it's my salvation. For all of the ups and downs, I'll keep riding this wave wherever it takes me.

## I ain't worried
I hang up the phone. He's right, I can't focus here. The only solution is to leave, and find a place where I can avoid distractions. But I'm not going to leave, I just got here. The flight was fucking expensive, and I haven't seen much yet. Well shit, I already worked out today. And it's almost 2pm. Guess it's time for a beer. Vincent reclines back in his lounge chair, nodding his assent. I'm on the back of a motorbike, holding on with one hand as I take photos with the other. I'm in the passenger seat of a car going 160 mph on the Autobahn, on my way to a brewhouse that I've always dreamt about. I sit on the patio eating a chocolate croissant and sipping a Cafe Americano in the Lazio hills. Long train rides are boring no matter what country you're in, but they're better with anticipation of something new. The chocolate oozes nutella, but espresso balances it out perfectly. There's a large cat that lives here, who does nothing but laze around and take pets. I can't blame her. I see the Colosseum appear from around the bend of a large field, and my eyes tear up. A book with this very image has sat on my bookshelf for as long as I can remember. Just got off the phone again, but my eyes are tearing up for a different reason. Things aren't going well back home. How do I say what I really want to say, but can't? How do I fix this? Two parts of my life are crumbling, but I'm drinking a delicious beer surrounded by new friends. I've avoided my problems thus far, why not one more day?

## Standing at the crossroads
It's not coincidence if you don't want it to be. She reminds me of my ex. Both of them. All of them, whatever. I'm immediately attracted, but I know it's in vain. I can't act on it right now. Why do I keep going down the same path, chasing something I only partially want? There are so many mistakes in my memories, why won't I learn? I try to be kind, and not hurt the people close to me. The aggression that pools up underneath the surface only seems to do harm. I haven't figured out how to channel it productively, so I just end up going along with what others want, doing what I think a good guy would. Why does it feel like I can choose left or right but not both? The little demon on one shoulder whispers to me as the angel on the other screams at me to behave. Don't show weakness! Don't show interest! Don't do what you want, follow the others! You damn well better not hurt anybody by picking favorites. Oh well, now you're stuck in another relationship you didn't fully want, sucks for you, at least the only person you hurt is yourself. I move too fast, argue too loudly, and say things people don't want to hear. Weakness. I've hurt my loved ones. Why do I have to put on the mask, not everyone else? Occasionally I meet someone who sees through it, and all I feel is shame that I didn't listen to the whispers. That party where she drunkenly confessed to me and I stood there silently. That message from out of the blue that I didn't respond too. That phone call where I answered yes but then one-eightied. The time I sat there and paused for an excruciatingly long time before nodding my head and saying sure. Hell yeah or no. I thought it was obvious, but apparently only to me. Chasing the two who both had half of what I wanted only to meet the third who was whole, and then disappeared forever. Idiot boy. Where would I be if I was me? My head drowns out the whispers in my heart once more.