---
title: Sitting Naked in a Snowy Field
date: 2023-11-09
---
## The Basics
I want to enjoy life as much as possible. I can guarantee that you do too. Everyone I know pretty much wants the same things out of life -- friendships, good food, plenty of sleep, a healthy body, a calm mind. Tons of money? Only insofar as it buys you food, a place to live, plenty of warm clothes, and some beers to share with our friends. Most of the time, we seek things outside of the basics because of what we lack. If we lack emotional connection, we seek out social media. If we lack mental calm, we seek out drugs to placate ourselves. If we lack social status and importance within our own tribes, we pursue success and wealth in the hopes that everyone will finally say "you are enough". This is all basic psychology, I'm not here to convince you of this. If you don't believe me, go talk to a licensed therapist, or write honestly in a journal. So what are these basics that we need?

You probably already know this stuff. You don't need to read some article about what humans need, since I suspect you are a human who has lived this life long enough to figure this out. And while you probably *know* what you need, that isn't the issue. The issue is acting on it. That's tough. For example, we all know very well that exercise isn't a want, it's a need for the human body, yet most people don't prioritize it. Anyways, let's get the basics out of the way.

- fresh air to breathe
- warmth
- clean water to drink
- nutritious food to eat
- security of health (hygiene, medical needs)
- movement to keep our heart, lungs, and muscles strong
- social connection

This is Maslow's hierachy of needs. I'm not reinventing the wheel here, it's Psych 101. Really, what we want is mental health. We want to feel good about ourselves, we want to feel good in our bodies. We want to be excited about life. We want to be confident in ourselves. We want to feel loved and important. Duh.
## Picture this
This stuff is obvious, but what's the issue? We fill our lives with junk that takes the place of all of this, whether by choice or by force. If you're unhappy with your life, and don't know how to fix it, here's a little thought experiment for you. Imagine you're sitting naked in a snowy field in the dead of winter.

Here's you:
[ picture ]

The sun is shining down on your beautiful skin. Your bare legs and ass are touching the cold snow, but the ground underneath is radiating heat upwards. You begin to shiver. You no longer have any friends. You don't have a house, you don't have a job. You don't have any money. You don't have any food, or clothing, and no water besides the snow you're sitting on. Screw all that.

What do you have? You have your mind and body. And you have nature, all of the resources you could possibly want right at your disposal, if only you knew how to make a knife and fire out of sticks and rocks (your ancestors did, and a simple web search could teach you too). You have your curiosity, your intelligence, and your wits. Lucky for you, you are still on Earth and not the Moon. You've got oxygen to breathe from all of the fresh air around you. Thank you trees (and plankton). You've got sunlight to warm your skin and to grow all of the plants around you. If it weren't for impending hypothermia death in a few hours, you'd actually be enjoying yourself. You no longer have to worry about what some idiot posted on social media. You no longer have to read the news about the weekly doomsday crisis. Nobody is forcing you to go into the office/factory for most of your waking day. You don't have to pay the landlord or bank anymore. All of these stressors are gone. You've successfully detoxed your body from all of the processed food, excess dairy, and shitty meat you've eaten in the last few months. For some reason, you're craving a big salad and some warm bread. You've gotten plenty of rest, and your muscles are aching, not from pain, but from desire to move and warm up. Your craving for alcohol/weed/heroin has gone away, freeing up your mind to think about other things, like the loneliness you feel in this big field facing the world alone, and the growling of your stomach.
## The First Upgrade
Seeing as this is my story, I'm going to solve a major problem for you right now -- clothing. My benevolence is showing, because I'm going to allow you to pick one outfit, whatever you want. I recommend playing it smart, since it is cold and snowy out there. For me, I'm putting on jeans, boots, a tshirt, flannel, fleece, rain coat, warm beanie, gloves with mittens over top, and some sweet sunglasses, because what's the point of surviving if you don't look cool while doing it? You don't need anything flashy or stylish, because nobody else is around. You're free to wear exactly what *you* like, and what keeps you warm. I'm a northerner, I don't need too much, but maybe you do, who cares. We're not clothing our nakedness because of some stupid deeply rooted societal shame, but simply because we're cold, and now we're not. You are finally free to not give two fucks about fashion and the opinion of stupid people at your school/on the internet/at your workplace. You have to make this decision yourself, and I'm proud of you for choosing what you like.

So now you're warm. You've still got fresh air to breath, sunlight to light your way and warm your skin, and plenty of plants around you. You see animal tracks, signs of fellow animalian life. Hypothermia has been prevented. Now what? Survival works in rules of three. Basically, if any of your basic needs aren't met, you will die. If you don't have oxygen, you will die in three minutes. If you don't have warmth, you will die in three hours. If you don't have water, three days. Food, three weeks. These are just convenient rough estimates to make it easy to remember what to prioritize, not exact numbers. No social connection, three months/years/decades? Who knows. I think for me, three months sounds about right, I'll go crazy without friends. We've got oxygen taken care of, and now warmth.
## Another gift from above
Now onto water. I'm currently staring at a faucet that dispenses cold, filtered water, and I've got two hands to drink out of it. In the snowy field, you could probably get away with melting snow and drinking it since it's most likely safe to drink, or boiling it, but I don't know how to make a fire without any tools, and you probably don't either, so just to be on the safe side, I'm going to gift you something that saved my own life on countless backpacking trips -- a portable mini water filter. This will filter out giardia and other yucky stuff from the water. Here's a water bottle as well, stainless steel, single walled (for boiling later). With this, you can find a stream and drink for months, maybe years. No longer do you have to worry about fresh water. Hell, if you're lucky enough to be in untouched nature, you could probably drink out of the stream without a water filter, but this is a hypothetical, and by George, we're going to be hypothetically safe about things, I don't want you getting the runs in the middle of reading this.

I'm not giving you coffee. Or beer. I'm kind of like your god in this scenario, it's pretty fun, not going to lie. Yes, I'm drinking coffee right now, but it's arguably an addiction, and that's what we're trying to avoid in this hypothetical scenario. Your stomach may still be rumbling, but remember the three week rule? At the very least, you can survive the rest of the day with what you have. You've got oxygen, you've got warmth, and you've got water. Since I'm god here, the weather forecast is going to hover right below 32 \*F / 0 \*C for the rest of the day and into the night, with light snow. You can sleep comfortably underneath a little cave outcropping if you clear away the snow and lay down some pine branches to form a soft bed. You'll be fine, trust me, that's why I put you in this specific snowy field. Shelter is just as important as clothing. If you want, you can have a tent, sleeping quilt, and sleeping pad as well. I don't care, you do you, but then you'll need a backpack. Aaaaaand now you're a backpacker, welcome to the silliest sport I've ever partaken in. Don't get me wrong, I absolutely adore it, and one of my favorite parts is stripping back all of the excess luxuries from life and living with just the essentials, but it really is just a sport where you walk and sleep.

What about safety and security? Well, there are no other people out here, and we're not in bear country, so you only have to worry about coyotes (not bad) and cougars (you won't be lucky enough to see one, they're elusive as hell). Really, humans are apex predators in a lot of environments of the world, so not much is going to mess with you. Plus, humans are pretty damn loud when walking around, so you'll probably scare off every other animal within a mile of where you walk. The more pressing issue is hygiene and medical. If you have any specific medical requirements, consider them taken care of -- you have all of the supplies you need to deal with your specific things. I'll give you a toothbrush and toothpaste, floss, whatever the hell the dentist always recommends. Sunscreen too. No bugspray, don't be a weenie. It's nice to nature to bury your poo, so you get a tiny little trowel (a big deal in the backpacking world). No TP, find some leaves, time to learn that nature provides. Hell, you could skip the sunscreen by rubbing dirt on your skin, but you'll have to work up to that. I dunno how to substitute toothpaste and floss, so you can keep those. Instead of moisturizer, you get water, sorry. Soap? Sure, but only 3 in 1, or better yet, Dr Bronners 12 in 1 soap. Bathing is going to be really cold in the stream, so good luck.
## Almost everything?
You've still got less than what you can fill your backpack with. A change of clothes is added. But you've got oxygen to breathe. Sunlight for warmth, light, and to set your circadian rhythym. Clothes and shelter to keep you warm. Fresh, clean water. Hygiene and security. Ignoring food and friends, you have everything you need for the forseeable future, and it's not even that much stuff. Your backpack still has plenty of room. You're feeling really good right now because of all of the fresh air, and the dopamine and serotonin rush from being in nature and walking among the plants. You're getting plenty of exercise from walking around, gathering water, looking at trees. You are feeling confident because you're using your wits to find resources, build shelters, gather supplies. You're relaxed because you've got nothing to worry about.
## Keep it simple, stupid
We overcomplicate our lives with drugs and things that promise us good feelings but always fail to deliver. Think about this -- if you're happy, keep doing what you're doing. If you're unhappy, could it be the actions you take in life? Could it be that the things you think make you feel good (alcohol, weed, social media, television, gossip, caffeine, junk food) actually make you feel bad? If what you want is good mental health, to feel physically and emotionally solid, it would be insane to keep doing the same things and expect different results. If you strip back all of the unnecessary bullshit of modern society, what are you left with? You, sitting alone in a snowy field, wearing warm clothes, drinking clean water, with shelter for the night. And now I'm giving you bread, fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, beans, olive oil, a hunk of cheese, a hunk of meat, and a small ration of wine. You can eat well for the next few weeks. You've got nothing but time to learn how to cook all of these simple ingredients and make delicious meals. You can walk around and forage for more food if you want. You can do pushups and squats, and climb trees and rocks to grow your muscles. You don't have to compare your performance to anyone but yourself. You can go run just to feel alive. There's nobody on social media anymore to make you feel bad about your lack of XYZ. Hell, if a few of your loved ones join you, you may forget about society all together. You will learn how to grow weed and brew wine, but you won't use these drugs excessively anymore because you just feel so darn good from all of the sunlight and exercise you're getting.
## Back to Reality
I know, 40 hour per week jobs are not conducive to being happy. Sucks. I can't figure it out for you though. This is just a reminder that when things are off in life, re-evaluate the fundamentals. All of the happiness studies, psych research, and philosophy are just going to tell you what you already know -- living simply, close to nature, in sunlight, breathing fresh air, drinking clean water, eating simple food, and hanging out with loved ones is all we really need in life. Society is seemingly designed to distract us from this simple fact of life, telling us that we need the latest car or tech thingy to be happy, that we need more *prestige*, more *wealth*, more *fame* to be happy, but deep down, these things will never satisfy us like sitting around the campfire playing ukulele and singing into the night with sisters/brothers/parents/children/friends/lovers who we care about. You know this, I know this, everyone knows this in their hearts. It's your challenge to design your life in such a way that you can be happy given the constraints of your stupid society/job/reality, and realize that all of that extra society bullshit is just that -- bullshit. A distraction from how humans want to really live.


