---
title: Psychedelics
draft: true
---
Psychedlics like LSD and Psilocybin (the active ingredient in hallucinogenic muschrooms) are way safer than most drugs, with a lower potential for immediate harm or long-term addiction than [alcohol](/alcohol), [weed](weed.md), cocaine, MDMA, or other party drugs.

They are stigmatized for no good reason, there is no logical explanation for being against psychedlics.

### 2018-??-??, Rolla
I hate 90 degree angles, I hate boxes, I don't want to be inside, I want to be outside so badly ahhhhhh know we're in the grass, looking at trees, I finally enjoy myself and can relax. Outside is where I feel at home.

### 2020-07-05, Backyard
I just want to be me. Barefoot; going with the flow; playing music; chasing ohm; minimalist; connected to the earth, water, air, fire, and space/energy; unlock my chakras; exercise; meditate; do yoga; exist peacefully; promote wisdom; hermit/monk/warrior/gardener; grow food; be one with nature; spread the wisdom; cherish my family and friends; take videos and capture memories of the people I care about; enjoy the ride; all good things are wild and free; extreme minimalism, devote 100% of me to writing; appreciate the tea ritual; have minimal possessions; wear simple clothes; don't pollute; walk; drugs are not the answer; except for tea; Jedi Monk; Avatar; Siddhartha; Native American; Shaolin Warrior Monk; ground rest; plants; air quality; fermented foods; healthy lifestyle; open-minded; own your shit; learn from all the elements, take what is uniquely you; Bruce Lee; protest government, wars, discrimination; martial arts; Buddhism; Taoism; Hindu; All know the way, few actually walk it; start walking the path; take a leap of faith; stay peacefully centered; optimism; there is beauty in imperfection; experience emotions fully; live deeply; remember when all that you wanted is what you currently have (the gift of a new life after losing it); there's something sacred within all of us, within all life; live in the present; trust in the truth; eliminate everything that gets between you and the force; rob greenfield has the right idea; fragile v. strong; society v. nature; rich v. poor; high-tech v. simple; force is wise, simple, and natural; spray paint; art; photography; neon colors; drip; there's something bigger than me that I should be striving for everyday; empty your cup; fire is the life source; primordial; calm and at peace, zen; meditate; ohm; calm; at peace; zen; remove our limitations; do or do not, there is no try;

### 2023-12-30, The Lake

**The come up**
We took shrooms after breakfast. I was hesitant to take a lot, but was interested in taking a few, so I settled on 1g of shrooms. Little did I know, Scoob grew those things strong as hell. It started off as most trips do, uneasy. I felt a bit of nausea when playing badminton, and turned into a total slacker when it came to the game. The whole crew was starting to fade away into laughter and frolicking. Biggs and I took a walk away from headquarters, and eventually started cracking up in the middle of the street. We walked home, around the side of the house, and towards the backyard, where we knew James and Sierra were waiting for us. 

**SMOKE IS GOOD FOR THE SOUL**
Biggs and I walked through the grass towards the fence gate and went through it, into a different world. As we peered over the crest of the hill, I caught the sight of two heads peeking back at us, slunk low to the ground, bodies stretched out horizontally away from the heads. James and Sierra smiled back at us and we walked down the hill towards them. They were laying in the leaves wrapped in their fuzzy sweaters, relaxed as can be. Biggs and I sat down, we discussed plans, and James went off to grab a joint. He returned with snacks and said joint, so we sparked up on the side of the hill looking out towards the lake. Brock joined us at some point.

**REMEMBER HOW TO WALK**
As we were laying there, I felt really nice swaddled in leaves, but then somebody mentioned going on a hike. Initially, I didn't want to, since I was sitting there smoking, the classic entropic thought. After shaking off the entropy, I stood up and followed the dudes, hiking down the hill. At first, I was careful about my steps, watching for rocks, trying not to slip, until at some point I had a realization -- all I had to do was relax into the forest and it was as if my body already knew what to do. My hands swung out and caught branches as my feet glided over rocks and leaves, slipping and swinging my way down the hill. Two feet is bad for traction, two feet and two hands is great for traction.

**EVERYTHING IS BETTER TOGETHER**
Eventually, we stumbled upon a sinkhole, and I felt like a kid again, able to swing and climb around any obstacle. Biggs hiked up the ridge of the sinkhole towards the apex, and I just beelined straight for him, right up the steepest side of the sinkhole, and easily swung my way over to him. We stood at the top, and saw James and Sierra walk away to find extra supplies. Biggs and I stood there talking, laughing, and enjoying the shrooms. Brock joined. The discussion was good, then petered out as they do, and I could see the looks the other two were giving me, something anxious, wanting to move on. I relaxed into the rocks, swaying back and forth on my feet, smiling at them. I realized what the issue was -- they were anxious to do something, to follow directions, to be lead somewhere. Biggs is always with me on this point, and if I give him the courage to fuck around, he reciprocates by giving me that same courage. It's been a time-tested formula, and I forgot just how damn important it is to me. The reason Biggs and I get along so well is we're both impatient goofballs. We don't like to work, and we don't like to do bullshit, so we're fast and efficient at getting that shit done without spending too much energy on it, and then we're ready to fuck around. All of our friends from college were always amazed by our ability to goof off, and it felt like we lost it for a while. At least, I definitely lost it -- not having Biggs around feels like I don't have a main supporter of my life.

**The forest is my home**
As we walked down the hill back to the house, I kept realizing that I didn't want to go inside. The orange and brown leaves were beautiful. The gray winter trees fractaled out into the sky. The sun was slowly setting, leaving the sky streaked in orange, yellow, cyan, and blue. As I swung through the trees, it felt more and more natural. I felt like the earth loved me. I could feel the care radiating from the other living beings. I could feel the love the trees felt for me, those ancient statues, supporting my movement, my rest, and my heart. My need to stay in the woods was easy to translate to the others, all I had to do was smile, discuss my love, and joke around. While initially uneasy, I took the reins, and the others relaxed into the woods as I did. Biggs and I were in perfect form, riffing off eachother, joking, talking shit, the usual. Brock joined in, entertained and interested by everything we were saying in our whirlwind of words. Eventually, he left, but Biggs clearly wanted to stay, as did I, so we sat at there discussing.

**Tears begin to flow**
Almost at the same moment, we both realized something essential and important to our two lives -- eachother. We will forever be intertwined together, our paths crossing over again and again like a braid. As individuals, we are strong and capable, but as a group, we are happy and joyful. I realized the great love I have for Biggs, and all of my friends, and relaxed into it. I let the tears flow, I told him I loved him, and I allowed myself to laugh. We joked around and kept discussing important things like family and religion, all the while leaning on trees, swinging from branches, and enjoying the soft comfort of winter leaves padding the stones and moss below our feet.

**The group forms again**
James and Sierra made their way back out, followed by Brock, and sat back down on the hill, watching Biggs and I discuss his family. Eventually, the conversation opened back up and we joked about "sturdy" Martha, Sally May Do, and the Twins, two intertwined saplings growing in front of Martha. We joked and laughed and teared up at how funny everything was. I can't imagine anything nicer than laughing in the woods with my friends. Eventually, we had to go back to the box, but with friends like these by my side, it didn't seem so bad. Plus, the promise of snacks and beer didn't hurt one bit.

### REFLECTIONS
This trip helped me cleanse myself of old thoughts and habits and remember who I am. I'm not the scientist who is totally dedicated to one goal and sees nothing else. I'm not a believer in morals or values, at least not strongly. I'm not close minded, nor dedicated, nor hard-working. What I most love to do is joke around with a bunch of friends, using my gift for wordplay and my lack of care to say whatever and make people laugh. When I'm relaxed, it comes so easily and naturally. I find myself acting as the leader, due to the strength of my words and ideas. I may not be the strongest, nor the best chef, nor the best runner, and I'm certainly not the best lifter. I'm not defined by what I do or my abilities. My intelligence, versatile and capable, is the defining feature of who I am, and my love of my friends is the main way I show it. 

Relax into yourself. When I was walking around in the forest, one of the biggest feelings I felt was a sense of letting go and relaxing into my body. Going with the flow, not stressing about what's happening, not thinking about the future, but focusing on what I'm doing in the moment.

**My greatest strength**: Exploration (Love of learning)
	- *Learning is Fun*: I love learning the rules, exploring the state-action space, brainstorming and comparing notes with others, and finally determining what the most efficient pathways are to success in each game. Often, once I figure this out, I don't actually want to go down the pathway, I just want to figure out the process to win the game, the knowledge, the ideas behind winning, and then let somebody else go off and do it.
	- *First principles*: I never listen to anybody elses strategy, or at least I do it with a grain of salt. People who are better than me, I listen to what they say with a critical ear, adapt it to my own play, and keep moving forward on my own exploration strategy. The more I play, and the less I read, the better I end up doing.
	- *Effective*: Since I'm so good at this, you can give me any problem, I can identify the rules of the game, figure out what's going on, and use my own intelligence to construct a winning strategy that is both minimal, simple, and takes into account many factors and exceptions.
	- *Intelligence*: repeating this process over and over just adds to my collective intelligence, improving my ability to do everything.
	- *Versatile*: with this strength, I can learn how to succeed at anything I do since I'm so good at the process of learning the rules, exploring the space, using my intuition and social skills to improve. This is much more versatile than exploiting any one skill, though that's often the path to success.
	- *Creative*: exploring directly leads to the creation of new ideas, new methods, and new ways to do things unlike anything else. I don't need to read books or learn from masters, all I need to do is learn the rules and start exploring, and I'll end inventing something new.
	- *Examples*
		- Sokka learned to be a swordsman in Avatar because he didn't have any skills and Master Pakku taught him that the sword is the most versatile weapon on the battle field and enables intelligent fighters to be creative on the battlefield.
		- Like Sokka (ATLA), he's the witty ideas-guy, the leader of the group, and he picks up the sword, because a sword is the most versatile weapon on the battlefield that requires intelligence, quickness, and creativity -- just like me.
		- *Swordfighting*: It's just like the lesson Sokka learned in ATLA -- become a swordfighter because it's the most versatile weapon that requires the most creativity and intelligence. It's not a simple brute force weapon, but rather one that requires you to outthink your opponent.
		- *Exercise*: I'm great at doing something, I'm bad at following a routine.
		- *Pathfinder*: I searched for a main for so long before settling on one of the most versatile characters who's got the most versatile ability in the game.

**My greatest weakness**: Routine
	- *Boring*: There's not much to learn when it comes to routine, at least not for the ol' noggin. My mind is so active, when I must do routine activities, it gets bored easily.
	- *Examples*: I've never been a consistent lifter. In Apex, I searched for a main for months without realizing that it's Pathy, the most versatile character in the game. In cooking, I switch up my strategy frequently until discovering the most versatile strategy of all.

**One routine**: Writing
	- *Job*: In order to utilize my strength of exploration, I need to find a routine that enables me to accrue resources (read: earn money) in an efficient manner (eg exponential returns not linear) to give myself more freedom.
